Today we have the thinnest smartphone
Apple has ever made, the new iPhone Air.
It's fair as the Air enters my lair that
Tim Cook say in a prayer. It's got to be
a scare to arrive at my secretary where
I've got no hair, though I do declare
that I will be fair. Feel free to stare
while we disregard welfare. I am aware
that this is a phone's worst nightmare.
While the Air is kind of rare, I do have
one spare. It's received much fanfare
for its dramatic flare. It's time to see
if it'll need repair or a grim repair.
Pulling it out of the box, it is
surprisingly light, and the mirror
finished grade 5 titanium is
surprisingly thin. Titanium is probably
my favorite metal, and I am sad it's
gone from the rest of the iPhone 17
lineup. It is cool, though, that it has
the same polish around the edge that the
original iPhone had 17 years ago. For
the Americans out there, the iPhone Air
is as thin as one Oreo wafer, or three
wooden toothpicks. It could also be half
a Lego brick, the same size as three US
quarters, or, you know, seven razor
blades from my JerryRrig utility knife.
I do have a buy a big knife, get a
little knife free deal going on till the
end of the month. Just throw them both
in your shopping cart at the same time.
But let's not get distracted.
Ice cream lids are another standard form
of measurement here in the USA. and the
iPhone Air is clocking in at about a
quarter of an ice cream lid. For the
rest of the world, of course, the iPhone
Air is 5.6 mm thin. My worry though is
that the button placement is going to
compromise the integrity of the high
strength aluminum. The buttons eat away
a substantial portion of the titanium
wall. And as anyone who's ever played
Jenga would know, if you remove enough
of the structure, things will eventually
fail. But just like we've done with
hundreds and hundreds of other phones
over the past decade, let's start with
the scratch test of the new Ceramic
Shield 2, which is supposedly three
times more scratch resistant. We'll see
about that. Plastic usually scratches at
a level two or three. Glass scratches at
a five or six. And sapphire usually
scratches at a level eight or nine. And
as you can clearly see from my pics, the
level six marks are basically
non-existent. And we also barely see any
scratches at a level seven. So I can't
even say the thing I always say, Apple
ruined it. The ceramic Shield 2 from
Corning is definitely a massive
improvement this year. However, glass is
still glass. And even if the ceramic
shield 2 is harder than before, glass
will never be invincible. Which is why I
recommend a Prism screen protector from
my channel sponsor DBR, which thanks to
Dbrand's nationwide rollout at Best Buy
today, I was able to instantly pick one
up at my local Best Buy store. Dbrand is
all grown up and playing with the big
boys. So cool to see. Dbrand calls this
an idiot proof screen protector. And
while my mom would not approve of the
name calling, the tagline definitely
gets the point across. With a simple
swipe, place, and peel, the screen
protector is perfectly placed every
time. Beautiful. Real glass is where
it's at.
Apple says their new screens have an
anti-reflective coating on the surface,
but the anti-reflectiveness pales in
comparison to my 2-year-old Galaxy S24
Ultra. You can count the individual
dodes from my LED desk lights on the
Samsung Glass, while the iPhone Air just
shows a white rectangle. There's a clear
winner. Better luck next time, I guess.
The front-facing 18 megapixel selfie
camera is also protected by the ceramic
shield, too. It has a new square sensor
inside, but we'll have to see what that
looks like during the tear down.
Subscribe so you don't miss it. The
reason titanium is my favorite metal is
because it's significantly lighter and
stronger than other metals. And it's
biompatible, meaning that all artificial
joints and screws that go into human
bones and bodies are usually made from
titanium. And even more interestingly,
when humans are cremated, the only thing
left behind in the dust is their
titanium hardware. And I'm sure it's
unrelated, but the uh iPhone Air is made
with 80% recycled titanium. Thumbs up
for that. The sound of scratching
titanium doesn't pierce quite as hard as
scratched aluminum, but the exterior is
still indeed scratchable. The buttons on
the iPhone Air are not removable.
Making our way to the bottom of the air,
the derriè, some might say. We see this
slightly offcenter charging port
surrounded by four extra holes. I
imagine these are meshcoed microphone
holes since the Air does not have a
lower stereo speaker, just a mono
speaker up in the earpiece. The charging
port as well charges quite a bit slower
than the Pro models. So, not only is the
battery smaller, but it charges slower,
too. It'll hit 50% charged in 30 minutes
instead of 20 minutes like on the Pro
models. So, if battery life and charging
speed are important to you, as well as
listening to music with both ears, you
might be better off with a regular
iPhone instead of the Air. Making our
way to the back of the Air, we have a
soft touched etch glass panel with the
smooth, shiny Apple logo in the center.
Zooming into the logo, you can see that
the Apple image itself is a tad north of
the etch, but it's not a big deal.
Perfect apples are hard to find, and
it's only a minor defect. Moving up to
the camera plateau, poured from the same
piece of solid glass, this visor won't
be popping off on its own. Apple says
this singular 48 megapixel lens is two
cameras in one, and for sure it can
identify as whatever it wants, but it's
still missing the dedicated wide-angle
and telephoto lens from the Pro models.
So, if you're an avid picture taker,
it's just something to keep in mind. The
rear-facing microphone has an IP68 metal
watertight grill over the opening as
well as a plastic diffused single color
LED flash. Honestly, one thing not a
whole lot of people are talking about
but should, is how Tim Cook
single-handedly saved this year's
iPhones from certain disaster. Like, we
all know the tariff situation is wild,
but there was 100% tariffs on
electronics coming into the USA until
Tim Cook bravely walked into the Oval
Office with a gold bar potentially worth
$150,000
and plopped it down on Donald's desk.
And boom, the next day all the tariffs
on the iPhones were gone, saving us
consumers about a,000 bucks a phone.
Absolute brilliant de moment move by
Tim. We were almost paying $2,000 for
the air instead of a,000. And while we
are safe for now, I do hope Mr. Cook has
a few more of those solid gold bars up
his sleeve ready for next year.
Surprisingly, the flame didn't appear to
mess with the olophobic coating.
Finally, the bin test. Titanium is
nearly twice as rigid as aluminum while
being about 60% more elastic than
aluminum as well, meaning that if it
does bend, it won't stay bent. So, in
theory, we should not have the same
reoccurring bend gate issue we saw back
with the iPhone 6. In theory, going
allin with the first bend,
freaking nothing. Flipping it around and
bending from the front, we actually get
some curvature this time. But thanks to
that titanium, it snaps back as straight
as it was coming out of the box a few
minutes ago. Just like it was forged in
the heart of a dying star or deep in the
fires of Mount Doom, the iPhone Air has
no business being this indestructible.
Both of my thumbs now hurt along with my
pride. The iPhone Air 100% passes my
durability test. But I did have a
contingency plan just in case Apple won.
And since Apple did win, it's time to
execute plan B, quantifiably finding out
the exact force at which the iPhone Air
will break. Join me on a scientific
field trip to my garage. With a crane
scale behind me, we'll be able to get
the official number of where the
titanium snaps. I think there is a metal
battery inside. Hopefully that doesn't
come back to haunt us, but I imagine
it'll snap somewhere along here. We're
about to find the number. Okay, sticking
it underneath these two bars. We're
supporting the middle of the phone. This
is so crazy.
[Music]
Oh, it's starting to bend. What are we
at? 73.
It's 100.
The phone's still alive. Come here.
Check this out.
It's 120.
120.
Oh, I heard something. We're at 171.
I can't believe it's still alive. I hear
something. The screen is still on, dude.
200 lb.
Oh my gosh. 215. Oh,
216 lb of pressure. Okay, lowering her
down.
Oh, that's wild. The back glass is still
intact. The front glass is totally
shattered. right there below uh the
bottom volume button. Oh, that's crazy.
I still can't even move it. Holy smokes.
That's how much weight it takes to break
an iPhone air. Keep in mind that all 216
lbs was concentrated directly in the
center of the phone. If you're a 216-lb
person sitting on your phone, that
weight is going to be distributed across
the whole surface. Unless you have buns
of steel, I imagine your pants pockets
would rip off before any damage happens
to the new iPhone Air. So, feel free to
sit on it as much as you'd like. I can
personally vouch that the iPhone Air is
structurally indestructible, except for
drops and scratches, which just like any
other smartphone will still cause
damage. Luckily, that damage is far
easier to mitigate with one of Dbrand's
Ghost cases, which I also picked up on
my impromptu Best Buy run this morning.
It's super thin, has a never yellowing
guarantee. If it ever does turn yellow,
it won't. Dbrand will replace it for
free, and it will still work with
Apple's new Macsave battery pack. Plus,
if you bundle the Ghost Case with the
Prism screen protector we saw earlier,
you'll get 42% off of the Prism. Use
code JerryRrig at checkout with the link
in the description, cuz protection is
always a good thing. Thanks a ton for
watching, and I'll see you around.